BECM | KUET Department of Building Engineering and Construction Management Building Engineering and Construction Management (BECM) is a department at Khulna University of Engineering
        & Technology (KUET) under the Faculty of Civil Engineering. University Grants Commission (UGC), Bangladesh
        permitted on September 02, 2013, to open this department. Later on 12 September 2013, the Academic Council of
        KUET decided to enroll 60 students in this department at the undergraduate level from the academic session
        2013-2014. As a developing and emerging country, Bangladesh needs Building Engineers coupled with a construction
        management specialist for the development of physical infrastructures ensuring technical soundness,
        cost-effectiveness, sustainable development goal (SDG), and ecofriendly criterion. BECM graduates will play an important role in the social and economic development of the country. In Bangladesh,
        for the first time, this department starts its journey only in KUET from the academic year 2013-2014. BECM
        graduate coordinates the activities to facilitate the realization of a coherent integrated building solution and
        other construction sites with the planning, design, construction, operation, renovation, maintenance, and their
        impacts on the surrounding environment and thus appropriate approach to conduct all relevant activities
        properly. The practice of Building Engineering and Construction Management (BECM) includes the ability to
        define, implement and control the design process to provide managerial oversight for the efficient and
        cost-effective design of a building engineering and construction project for on-site production. Key
        competencies for a BECM Engineer include building design, road construction philosophies, and management. Building Engineering and Construction Management (BECM) is an interdisciplinary program that integrates
        pertinent knowledge from different disciplines: Civil engineering for building structures and
            foundation analysis, design, construction and maintenance, construction safety, building codes, regulations,
            and specifications. Architecture for building planning, designing and
            constructing form, space, and ambiance that reflect functional, technical, social, and aesthetic
            considerations. Project management for specifying project objectives and
            plans including delineation of scope, budgeting, scheduling, setting performance requirements, and selecting
            project participants. A tremendous opportunity to gain valuable expertise in
            energy-efficient building methods. They discover and develop new methods to improve the efficiency of new
            construction. Sustainable construction practices can be learned how
            architects are designing energy-efficient homes and commercial buildings with sustainability in mind. Construction automation systems add performance features
            that increase the functionality of the building. Earthquake engineering for seismic risk, vulnerability,
            analysis, simulation, design, and performance of building structures. Wind engineering for dynamics, vibration control, risk,
            vulnerability, analysis, simulation, design, and performance of building structures. Fire engineering for fire safety strategies, specific
            fire safety design, fire risk assessments, and fire damaged building assessments. Chemistry and biology for indoor air quality, building
            materials chemical compositions. Mechanical engineering for the system (HVAC) and
            mechanical service systems. Electrical engineering for power distribution, control,
            and electrical systems. Physics for building science, lighting, and acoustics. Economics for maximizing resource efficiency through
            procurement of labor, materials, and equipment. The learning and teaching program is studied within the wider context of the surrounding built environment
        and is informed by current and prospective professional practice as well as research and academic debate.
        The strong vocational focus aims to equip students with those personal and professional skills that are
        so important in gaining successful employment, whilst broadening their understanding of the changing needs
        of society and the concept of sustainable development within the built environment. The objectives of the BECM
        department can be broadly described as follows: To establish a "Building Engineering and Construction
            Management" department for the enhancement of knowledge in complete building systems as well as managerial
            competencies at the undergraduate level. To introduce four years duration Bachelor course in
            Building Engineering and Construction Management. To develop professional manpower in the following
            fields: (a) Building Materials and Building Construction, (b) Construction Safety and Construction
            Management, and (c) Building Science and Environment. To create the opportunity for higher education and
                research in the field of Building Engineering and Construction Management. To provide up-to-date technological knowledge to various
            organizations of the country. The importance of Building Engineering and Construction Management (BECM) for a developing country like
        Bangladesh can hardly be overemphasized. Urbanization has been rapid and largely imbalanced, presently around
        30%, which will reach as much as 40% by 2025. A quarter of the population now lives in urban areas, while in
        1960 the number was just 5%. The population has been increasing without any potential declination which
        demanding for housing development and construction difficulties of other sites have got more importance in
        recent past. People constantly have been fighting against nature and social ordeals for survival. A well-built
        construction protects a family from the onslaughts of nature as well as anti-social elements. It thus increases
        the productive capacity of the inhabitants of it. On the other hand, due to the geographical locations, the
        country has to face various environmental effects on structures, such as salinity, corrosion of reinforcement,
        inadequate soil stability, etc. Moreover, due to industrialization, industrial, commercial buildings, and
        communication networks are increasing rapidly. Hence the sound knowledge regarding building systems have crucial
        significance. The Department has different highly equipped modern laboratories to support our academic programs and research.
        The department has approved a technical club named BECM Technical Club KUET (BTECK). The department regularly
        organized technical workshops, webinars, and technical sessions for skilled graduates. Already, the department
        more than four national fests named BUILTECH FEST. Established : 02-09-2013 Head : Dr. Md. Habibur Rahman Sobuz Location : Office , Department of Building Engineering and Construction Management (BECM), Khulna University of Engineering & Technology

                  (KUET), Khulna-9203, Bangladesh Phone : +8802477733050-Ext:8700 BTCL : Fax : +8802477733303 Email : head@becm.kuet.ac.bd No of Faculty : 24
