BME | KUET Message From Head Dr. Md. Bashir Uddin Welcome to the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Khulna University of Engineering and Technology. Biomedical engineering is a discipline that integrates engineering principles and the study of the life sciences and medicine. Students in biomedical engineering develop engineering strategies to effectively solve challenging problems in medicine and biology.The Biomedical Engineering Department has been started since May, 2007 under the faculty of Electrical and Electronic Engineering as a post-graduate department. From 2010 and 2015 we have started admission in the post-graduate students and undergraduate students respectively. This website provides an overview of the academic programs, research activities currently underway in the Department, our research facilities, and a profile of each faculty member\'s research interests. We hope that whether you are a prospective graduate student, or work in industry or another university, you will find this website to be informative. We feel proud that BME is one of the post-graduate departments under the Faculty of Electrical and Electronic Engineering in Bangladesh. We are fortunate to have modern facilities of biomedical signal processing, image processing, etc to support our academic programs and research. Khulna is a nice place to study in the post-graduate program from any part of Bangladesh. We welcome all enquiries from prospective students with an interest in our activities. If you have further questions to learn about our programs and research after browsing this website please do not hesitate to contact me via email or directly at (041-769471-333). You may also correspond with other faculty members, or contact them by e-mail, using the addresses shown on the faculty pages. We further welcome new students to our site and encourage anyone interested to contact us at headbme@kuet.ac.bd. I look forward to your further support and encouragement as we begin the country\'s first post-graduate program of biomedical engineering here at Khulna University of Engineering and Technology. Dr. Md. Bashir Uddin Head Department of Biomedical Engineering Khulna University of Engineering & Technology Khulna-9203, Bangladesh Tel: +8802477733210-ext 8880 Fax: (041) 774403 E-Mail: head@bme.kuet.ac.bd
