CE | KUET Department of Civil Engineering Civil Engineering is one of the oldest professions and largest fields of modern engineering that better serves our daily life. The work of a civil engineer includes the design, construction, and management of: buildings, high-rise towers and skyscrapers; bridges; tunnels; water and wastewater treatment plants; airports and harbours; ansportation systems; dams and retaining structures, to name a few. Recognizing this responsibility, the Civil ngineering program at Khulna University of Engineering & Technology (KUET) provides a well-rounded quality and hallenging education with a solid theoretical background, training in the latest design methods, and proficiency in echnological applications. Department of Civil Engineering, one of the first academic disciplines of KUET has a long and distinguished history, started its first academic curriculum in 1974 at undergraduate level. The department offers both undergraduate and postgraduate programs. Now, the department has intake of new students in every year are 120 in undergraduate (UG) and 40 in postgraduate (PG) levels. The department offers a range of basic and advanced regular and optional courses in the major areas of Civil Engineering. Advanced research programs on all these areas are very important for the sustainable development of Bangladesh. There are 13 (thirteen) laboratories in the Civil Engineering department equipped with all necessary basic and modern instruments to conduct any research at advanced level. Besides, as a part of the research activity, the department initiated a number of national and foreign funded research projects in the past and some of them are ongoing. Moreover, the department organizes two international conferences in every alternate year, named as WasteSafe and ICCESD since 2009 and 2012, respectively, to disclose the research outcomes at national and international arena. The department of Civil Engineering continuously strives for excellence in research outreach. One of the strongest accounts of the department is the excellence in the faculty and stuffs, and their long experience in the academic and administrative standing in the Khulna University of Engineering & Technology. There are 43 faculty members dedicated in teaching the students of this department as well as the students of other departments of KUET. The department's young faculty members are continuous adding to the human resources from the national and international degrees and research. Established : 10-05-1974 Head : Dr. Md. Jahir Uddin Location : Old Academic Building
(Civil Engineering Building), Department of Civil Engineering(CE), Khulna University of Engineering & Technology
                  (KUET), Khulna-9203, Bangladesh Phone : +8802477733202, Ext-200 BTCL : 02477733280 Fax : +8802477733351 Email : head@ce.kuet.ac.bd No of Faculty : 62
