CHE | KUET Department of Chemical Engineering Chemical Engineering is one of the new departments established on 06 June 2018 at Khulna University of Engineering & Technology under the faculty of Mechanical Engineering. The main focus of this department is to design, construct, and operate machines and plants that perform chemical reactions on an industrial scale for the industrial development of Bangladesh and worldwide. It also strives to provide students with strong theoretical and experimental knowledge to meet the needs of a changing and rapidly developing technological environment. The department has several well-equipped laboratories, including Process Control Laboratory, Fluid Mechanics Laboratory, Heat Transfer Laboratory, Mass Transfer Laboratory, Corrosion Laboratory, Particle Engineering Laboratory, Process Simulation Laboratory, etc., to familiarize the students with industrial processes. In this department, the four-year undergraduate program has started with the enrollment of 30 students from the academic session 2018-2019. In the near future the undergraduate intake in each academic session will be increased to 60. Recently, we have started a graduate program with the enrollment of 5 students for the academic session July-2024. This program also seeks to develop innovative science and technology that addresses the needs of industry, the scientific community, and society with a highly collaborative and interdisciplinary approach. The Vision Statement To provide a high standard of education and research facilities, leading to innovative, entrepreneurial, and successful graduates in chemical engineering to resolve the grand challenges of industry and society while considering environmental issues and social needs. The Mission Statement Provide the students with a solid theoretical and technical background in the field of Chemical Engineering to solve the problems in process plants, modern problems in Engineering, and social problems. Prepare future Chemical Engineers as well as future leaders to build up an innovative nation. Maintain close ties with industries to develop the students equipped with real-life knowledge and experiences and solve the problems through research and development that are very much needed in society and the world. Established : 06-06-2018 Head : Dr. Kazi Mostafijur Rahman Location : Office , Department of Chemical Engineering(ChE), Khulna University of Engineering & Technology

                  (KUET), Khulna-9203, Bangladesh Phone : +8802477733190 Ext-8630 BTCL : 02477733190 Fax : +8802477733351 Email : head@che.kuet.ac.bd No of Faculty : 14
