CHEM | KUET Department of Chemistry Create new materials, understand the structures,
        Reactions and properties of materials at the atomic level,
        and contribute to society through chemistry ! Khulna University of Engineering & Technology's Chemistry Department was founded in 1974 to provide outstanding
        education and research in Chemistry. It is a postgraduate degree awarding department. It also teaches chemistry
        to undergraduate engineering students. Its main objective is to develop scientists, technologists, and engineers
        who are capable of solving both national and global scientific and economic issues. "As the temperature drops down, the molecules get closer till they form a solid shape." "Maybe we're chemicals, Because we've chemistry". One of the fundamental disciplines that studies the nature and transformation of matter is chemistry. Chemistry
        is a branch of science that studies atoms, molecules, macromolecules, and their assemblages, including living
        systems. Investigating the origins, characteristics, and functions of chemicals found in nature is the aim and
        purpose of chemistry, which also aims to improve human society by making the best use of existing substances and
        by developing new functional materials. The importance of chemistry is significantly greater than you might
        think and is a lot closer to people. Studying the composition, reaction, synthesis, structure, characteristics,
        and change of matter is the field of chemistry. Chemistry can be a good and bad thing. Chemistry is good when you make love with it, Chemistry is bad when you
        make crack with it. A focus of this department is placed on electrochemistry, solution chemistry, analytical chemistry,
        computational chemistry, sensor & biosensor chemistry, synthesis chemistry, polymers, organometallics, solid
        state & materials chemistry, nanomaterials, battery, photocatalysis and other disciplines for undergraduate and
        graduate students. Our objective is to produce highly qualified graduates that are in demand for jobs in
        academia, industry, and government. This department provides suitable programs to generate graduates with very
        high standards of academic and practical knowledge. Students from throughout the nation who wish to study higher
        education in Khulna City are becoming significantly closer to it. "Don't complain; just work harder." There are three postgraduate laboratories & two undergraduate laboratories having more than 15 major instruments
        such as, UV-Visible spectrophotometer, Fourier Transform infrared spectrophotometer, potentiostats, elemental
        analyzer, flame photometre, ICP-OES, HPLC, Di Water System, high temperature furnace, incubator, glove box,
        sound velocity & viscosity meter, computation modelling setup, etc. Besides we have SEM-EDX, XRD, TGA-DSC & AAS
        located in the KUET central laboratory. Moreover, we have access to TEM, & Raman through external collaboration. "If you fail to prepare, you're prepared to fail." Thanks for visiting the Chemistry Department. It is a pioneer Department of Khulna University of Engineering and
        Technology (KUET). For young people who are inquisitive and creative, the department provides a pleasant
        educational environment. The university website provides the department with access to e-books and journals. The
        department has several research and review articles that have been published in high ranked international
        journals. Established : 3 June 1974 Head : Dr. Parbhej Ahamed Location : Office , Department of Chemistry (CHEM), Khulna University of Engineering & Technology

                  (KUET), Khulna-9203, Bangladesh Phone : +8802477733351~70 Ext-504 BTCL : Fax : +8802477733971 Email : head@chem.kuet.ac.bd No of Faculty : 19
