CSE | KUET Department of Computer Science and Engineering Department of Computer Science and Engineering of KUET, started its academic activities from September 26, 1999 with the aim of quality education as well as cutting edge researches in the branches of Computer Science and Engineering. The department regularly offers postgraduate (M.Sc. and Ph.D.) and undergraduate (B.Sc.) programs. Only top ranked brilliant students are enrolled in this department through a competitive admission test. At present, yearly intake of this department is around 160 including 120 fixed undergraduate intakes. The department has well equipped different laboratories and a System Development Centre to increase the expertise of students practically along with theoretical knowledge. Dept. of CSE has always been widely recognized for its excellent research and teaching capabilities. The main strength of the department is the talented faculty members who are dedicated in teaching and research. The faculty members conduct researches in distinguishing fields and outcomes are regularly published in different prestigious journals and conferences. Moreover, faculty members maintain strong ties with different reputed national and international companies and are involved in a large number of IT projects development. The major areas of research of the department include Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing, Cyber security/Computer security, Cloud Computing, Soft Computing, Computer Vision and Image Processing, Vehicular Adhoc Networks (VANETs), Fuzzy systems, Embedded Systems, Data Mining and Computer Networks etc. The department has research groups in specialized areas (e.g., Computational Intelligence Research Group ) to conduct researches with collaboration of different universities of the globe to address and solve complex real-world problems. The department provides an excellent research environment for its students to flourish in complemented by superior teaching. Postgraduate students conduct forefront research work under the supervision of our highly experienced faculty members. Undergraduate students also get a chance to be involved in leading research work through final year thesis work. After finishing graduation, a significant portion of students are admitted in top ranking universities of the world and pursue in advanced research. On the other hand, the graduates from the department are heavily recruited by IT industry of home and abroad. Many alumni’s of are currently working with Microsoft, Samsung and other leading IT companies. Each year, several reputed IT giants arrange campus recruitment programs to appoint graduates just after completion of degrees. The department of CSE regularly arranges co-curricular activities such as workshops/seminars, lecture series, and practical demos. The student body of the department, namely Computer Science and Engineering Association (CSEA) is also active in organizing co-curricular and extra-curricular activities. The CSEA organizes programming contests regularly through “Special Group of Interest in Programming Contest” (SGIPC) to prepare the students for the ACM collegiate and other competitive programming contests. CSEA also nurtures “Hardware Acceleration Club of KUET” (HACK) to organize hands-on workshops on robotics, embedded systems development and many more. They are also devoted to organize the sports and cultural activities of this department. The Vision Statement To become a Center of Excellence in the field of Computer Science and Engineering with a strong research

                and teaching environment that adapts swiftly to the ever-changing requirements of Computer Science and

                Engineering. The Mission Statement The mission of the Department of Computer Science and Engineering is to pursue excellence in computer science and engineering education, research, and applications for the benefit and betterment of society. We achieve our mission by: To produce students with high ethical standards, professionalism, and complex problem-solving

                    ability to meet the needs of ever-changing requirements of Computer Science and Engineering. To produce talented engineers and scientists by conducting collaborative research and innovation

                        that create technological development and necessary knowledge to benefit society. To groom students with the quality of leadership skills and with the philosophy of life-long

                        learning through the program’s extraordinary education and research facility for sustainable

                        connectivity with academia and industry from national and global perspectives. Objectives: Within 3 to 5 years of graduation, graduates of the department will be able: PEO-1: To establish themselves as leading IT professionals with high moral value to address evolving challenges in Computer Science and Engineering by strengthening mathematical, scientific, and engineering knowledge. PEO-2: To promote teamwork and lifelong learning through analysis and design of multidisciplinary projects for industrial, research, and academic careers. PEO-3: To inculcate professionalism with the highest ethical standard for the well-being of a society using Computer Science and Engineering principles, tools, and techniques. PEO-4: To prepare themself by choosing a diverse career path with high problem-solving ability, effective communication skill, critical thinking ability, entrepreneurship, and leadership skill. Established : 14-09-1999 Head : Dr. Al-Mahmud Location : New Academic Building

Block-B, Department of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), Khulna University of Engineering & Technology

                  (KUET), Khulna-9203, Bangladesh Phone : +8802477733318 Ext:350 BTCL : 02477733318 Fax : +8802477733351 Email : head@cse.kuet.ac.bd No of Faculty : 54
