CSE | KUET Program Outcomes (PO) Upon completion of the four-year B.Sc. degree in Computer Science and Engineering, a graduate will be

                able to demonstrate: Engineering knowledge: Apply knowledge of mathematics, natural science, engineering fundamentals,

                and an

                engineering specialization as specified in K1 to K4 respectively to the solution of complex engineering

                problems. Problem analysis: Identify, formulate, research literature, and analyze complex engineering

                    problems

                    reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and

                    engineering sciences. Design/development Solution: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design

                    systems,

                    components, or processes that meet specified needs with appropriate considerations to public health

                    and safety, cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. Investigation: Conduct investigations of complex problems using research-based knowledge

                    (K8) and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and

                    synthesis of information to provide valid conclusions. Modern tool usage: Create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern

                    engineering and IT tools, including prediction and modelling, to complex engineering problems,

                    with an understanding of the limitations. The Engineer and Society: Apply reasoning informed by contextual knowledge to assess

                    societal,

                    health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to

                    professional engineering practice and solutions to complex engineering problems. Environment and sustainability: Understand and evaluate the sustainability and impact of

                    professional engineering work in the solution of complex engineering problems in societal and

                    environmental contexts. Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics, responsibilities and

                    norms of engineering practice. Individual work and team work: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or

                    leader in diverse teams and in multi-disciplinary settings. Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the electrical

                    and

                    electronic engineering and other inter-disciplinary communities and with society at large, such

                    as being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective

                    presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. Project management and finance: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of engineering

                    management principles and economic decision-making and apply these to one's own work, as a

                    member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments. Life-long Learning: Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in

                    independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.
