EEE | KUET Message From Head Dr. Mostafa Zaman Chowdhury Welcome to the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering (EEE) website. It is a major Department
            in Khulna University of Engineering & Technology (KUET), a leading Public University with established
            programmes recognized internationally and accredited by various professional bodies. The Department is proud of its rich engineering heritage in this University. This Department took pioneer
            role in establishing three other departments named Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), Electronics and
            Communication Engineering (ECE) and Biomedical Engineering (BME). Over the years, Department of EEE has made
            great stride in teaching, research, services and continues to attract the best talents in faculty members,
            researchers and students from Bangladesh and abroad adding to our vibrancy and diversity. At present, this
            department has adequate resources and facilities for Electrical Machines, Power Electronics and Industrial
            Drives, Power System Engineering, High Voltage Engineering, Energy Technology, Digital Electronics and Logic
            Design, Semiconductor Devices and Technology, Communication Engineering, Electromagnetic Field and Microwave
            Engineering, Control System Engineering, Signal and Image Processing, Biomedical Engineering and many more. Each year approximately 10000 Higher Secondary passing superlative students from the whole country are
            selected to sit for a rigorous undergraduate written entrance test. Among them only top notch 120 students
            are selected to pursue their Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) Degree from this Department. The Department offers exciting opportunities for students to embark on a variety of learning pathways, each
            with a global perspective, complemented by an Asian focus. The goal is to nurture Engineer-Leaders for the
            globalized economy of the 21st century. This Department aims at developing the ability of students to live
            flexibly and aggressively in our rapidly changing society as well as fosters future scientists and engineers
            to advance our modern way of life. It is our mission to develop professionals with a global perspective who
            will take an active role in international progress. Curriculum of this Department is designed to develop
            creativity and leadership qualities, while enabling the students to build up expertise in the chosen branch
            of Engineering. Graduate students can look forward to being immersed in a vibrant research-intensive
            environment in any branch of Electrical and Electronic Engineering under the Department by pursuing a higher
            degree like Master of Science (M.Sc.) or Doctor of Philosophy (PhD). They are closely mentored by the
            connoisseur Faculty Members. Rather than continuing with a deluge of information, I warmly invite you to
            explore the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering both in cyberspace and the real world. Have
            a pleasure surfing throughout the website to learn more about the programmes and research we undertake. Dr. Mostafa Zaman Chowdhury Head Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering Khulna University of Engineering & Technology, Khulna-9203
