EEE | KUET Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering Electrical and Electronic Engineering has emerged over the recent decades as one of the key technological department that greatly impacted today's society. The scope of this multi-faceted field is broad, encompassing such diverse fields as electric power systems, information technologies, signal and image processing, solid-state electronics, opto-electronics, control system, embedded system and electromagnetics. Interdisciplinary research, combining several of these fields, has led to the realization of new technologies. The Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering (EEE) is one of the largest departments in KUET and it creates a centre of excellence of the top-quality students. The Department started its journey in 1974 from the beginning of this institute. For providing the continuous support to our society, the department is providing world-class education to the brilliant youth considering their full potential. The significant contributions to the society have made the department an attractive technological center to the professional and academic personnel. For the high quality real-life orientated education system, admission in this department is a dream to the local and international students. Generally, 120 students get opportunity to enroll in this department as undergraduate student every year. In postgraduate level limited numbers of students get admission in this department in two terms in a year. Due to the international reputation of this department, foreign students also seek admission every year. After fulfilment of the international student's admission criteria, one can get admission into this department. The department offers four years (eight terms) degree of B. Sc Engineering in Electrical and Electronic with the provision for doing major and minor in various fields. In the last three terms the students are made expert in different project and thesis works, which enables them to show their skill in professional life. In postgraduate level the Department offers M. Sc Eng. and Ph.D. program through taught courses and a dissertation/thesis based on researches in all the branches of Electrical and Electronic Engineering. The Vision Statement The Electrical and Electronic Engineering Department of Khulna University of Engineering &
                    Technology offers exciting opportunities for students to embark
                    on a variety of learning pathways, each with a global perspective, complemented by an Asian focus. The
                    goal is to nurture Engineer-Leaders for the globalized
                    economy of the 21st century. This Department aims at developing the ability of students to live flexibly
                    and aggressively in our rapidly changing society
                    as well as fosters future scientists and engineers with their research and extension to advance our
                    modern way of life. The Mission Statement The Department : designs curriculum for the students to develop creativity and leadership quality. imparts requisite knowledge, skills and expertise to its graduates. creates facilities to conduct world class research excellence in international level through
                            appointing qualified teachers and creating facilities needed. assigns faculty members to closely mentor the current students for their grooming and
                            developments. Objectives: The KUET, EEE graduates will successfully use modern
                        techniques and tools and will be able to function in national and international
                        organizations.Â The EEE graduate of KUET will be capable
                        to apply basic mathematical and scientific principles for supporting design, application,
                        installation,
                        manufacturing, operation, and maintenance of electrical,
                        electronic, computer, and instrumentation systems. The KUET, EEE graduates will be capablity to pursue advanced degrees in diverse fields and continue
                        professional development.Â The KUET, EEE graduates will be offered Post graduate degrees through advanced state of the art
                        research
                        facilities. Â The KUET EEE Department provides consultancy services for the well being of the people of the
                        country. Outcomes: Students of the Department should acquire ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science,
                        and engineering to design and conduct experiment and solve engineering problems an ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired
                        needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical,
                        health
                        and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability an ability to function in multidisciplinary teams an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility a recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning a knowledge of contemporary issues an ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering
                        practice an ability to conduct independent research and acquire ability to analyze national and international
                        problems in the Electrical and
                        Electronic Engineering field Established : 03-03-1974 Head : Dr. Mostafa Zaman Chowdhury Location : Old Academic Building
(Electrical Engineering Building), Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering(EEE), Khulna University of Engineering & Technology; Khulna-9203, Bangladesh Phone : +8802477733282, Ext-300 BTCL : 02477733282 Fax : +8802477733351 Email : head@eee.kuet.ac.bd No of Faculty : 56
