ESE | KUET Department of Energy  Science and Engineering The Department of Energy Science and Engineering started its journey from May 2007. This department has been conducting M. Sc. Engineering program since its commencement. Additionally, it started its undergraduate program from the academic session 2016-2017 with 30 students. Moreover, the department will also offer Ph.D. degree if there is an availability of interested graduate students. The department is renowned for its comprehensive curriculum that covers a wide range of energy-related subjects, equipping students with a solid foundation in the field. This department is a multi-disciplinary debarment comprising of Mechanical, Electrical and Chemical Engineering. Through a combination of theoretical knowledge and practical experiences, students gain valuable insights into sustainable energy solutions, energy efficiency, renewable energy systems, and much more. The curriculum covers a wide range of topics including both renewable and non-renewable energy courses as well as the principles behind their conversion into usable forms of energy. The organogram of this department reveals that there are 25 faculties with a good number of other supporting staffs. At present, there are 11 (eleven) faculty members dedicated to the department and teaching the students of this department. The faculties from other related departments are also offering courses for graduate and post-graduate studies. Prof. Dr. Md. Shameem Hossain is working as the Head of this department. Prof. Dr. Md. Hasan Ali is working as Professor, Mr. Monjur Morshed, Mr. Nibir Mondol, Mr. Tahir Mahmud, Mr. Md. Mahmodul Alam, and Mr. Md. Jahangir Hossain are working as Assistant Professor, whereas Mr. Mostafizur Rahaman, Mr. Md. Sohag Hossain, Khaza Shahriar and Golam Sharoar Fahim are working as Lecturer. There are 06 (six) laboratories in this department equipped with necessary instruments to conduct research at advanced level. Right now, in every semester 25 post-graduate students can be enrolled in this department. So, this department will produce a large number of highly educated and qualified graduates every year, who will contribute to the development of national and international energy sector through proper theoretical and applied knowledge. Established : 01-05-2007 Head : Dr. Md. Shahidul Islam Location : Office , New Academic Building, Block C, 2nd Floor (North) Khulna University of Engineering & Technology

                  (KUET), Khulna-9203, Bangladesh Phone : +88041-769471 ext-480 BTCL : +88041-769471 Fax : +88-041-774403 Email : head@ese.kuet.ac.bd No of Faculty : 14
