LE | KUET Department of Leather Engineering Leather engineering is the study of science and technology of manufacturing leather from rawhide/skin, which is one of the most important by-products of the meat industry. The Leather sector is the second largest export earner in Bangladesh. Finding the necessity and better prospect of Leather Engineering, the Government of the Peoples’ Republic of Bangladesh has permitted to open the Department of Leather Engineering in 2010 through the organogram of Khulna University of Engineering & Technology (KUET). Since its inception, the Department has been playing a pivotal role in developing professionals with a global perspective who will contribute to national and international progress. The Department provides students with comprehensive knowledge through state-of-the-art laboratories, machinery, and contemporary technologies concerning the three disciplines of leather, footwear, and leather products engineering. The curricula of this Department are designed to develop creativity and leadership qualities that enable the graduates to accept the emerging challenges in the research as well as industrial premises. Notably, the graduates of this Department have long been engaged in the profession of any of the aforementioned branches of Engineering with esteem and reputation. The admission requirements for the Bachelor of Science in Leather Engineering program are as per the specified standard of the university admission. The students are admitted into the Bachelor of Science in Leather Engineering program following the undergraduate admission procedure by the university. The Department also assigned a faculty as an advisor for each student who guides the student throughout the academic program for fostering a friendly and healthy teacher-student relationship. The Department also provides an outstanding environment and research facilities under faculty supervision. At the graduate level, the Department offers Master of Science in Leather Engineering (M.Sc. Eng.) and Doctoral (Ph.D.) degrees. Established : 29-08-2010 Head : Dr. Md. Elias Uddin Location : Office , Department of Leather Engineering (LE), Khulna University of Engineering & Technology

                  (KUET), Khulna-9203, Bangladesh Phone : +8802477733344, Ext-750 BTCL : 02477733344 Fax : +8802477733351 Email : head@le.kuet.ac.bd No of Faculty : 23
