MSE | KUET Message From Head Prof. Dr. Md. Salah Uddin Yusuf Welcome to Materials Science and Engineering (MSE) Department website. It is my honor to be the Head to forward MSE Department to the next level. MSE Department of KUET started its academic activities from 16th February 2017 with 60 students in B.Sc. program. MSE is the study of structure, processing, properties and performance relationships of engineering materials. Modern MSE encompasses a broad range of materials, from traditional metallurgy to biological materials, polymers, ceramics, semiconductors, composites, optical, and magnetic materials, as well as numerous nanotech-materials. MSE graduates can be found employed in almost all fields of human endeavor. MSE Department has qualified faculty members having professional experience in international arena and industries. The faculty members are engaged in cutting edge research in different conventional materials as well as advanced materials and state of the art materials characterization. The graduate program in MSE at KUET is distinguished by offering an outstanding selection of courses to be taught by our faculty mentors. Our plan is to offer outstanding M.Sc. and PhD degree programs in near future. As a team, our collective mission is to cross new frontiers in academics and research and to achieve long lasting working partnerships across the public and private platform. There will be challenges ahead of us as we want to grow our program and we can overcome these hurdles with the help of our superb faculty and staff. These challenges can offer new opportunities as we go forward. As I also continue my role as Head of the Department, I will continue to foster interdisciplinary partnership between MSE and other departments, centers and institutes. We continue to do our best to provide high quality research and education. I truly hope you will join us in our quest for cutting edge interdisciplinary research, outstanding academics and ground-breaking science and continue to support our department and take an active role in both academics and research. Prof. Dr. Md. Salah Uddin Yusuf Head Department of Materials Science and Engineering Khulna University of Engineering & Technology Khulna-9203, Bangladesh Tel: +8802477733343-ext 8850 Fax: (041) 774403 E-Mail: head@mse.kuet.ac.bd
