MTE | KUET Department of Mechatronics Engineering Mechatronics Engineering (MTE) is one of the newest departments founded on 01 July 2018 at Khulna University of Engineering & Technology (KUET) under the faculty of Mechanical Engineering to meet the needs of mechatronics-related talents for building an automated and digitalized world. Mechatronics Engineering is all about designing automated machines. It is based on a synergistic combination of mechanical, electronics, and software engineering. Mechatronics Engineering is the engineering discipline concerned with the research, design, implementation, and maintenance of intelligent engineered products and processes enabled by the integration of mechanical, electronics, control, information, computer, and software engineering technologies. The curriculum is structured so that students can gain knowledge and hands-on experience in mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, sensors, actuators, drives, PLC and control systems, mechatronic systems, and the appropriate software tools to design a system that performs specified tasks. Mechatronics Engineering graduates will have a strong understanding of engineering principles and the ability to put ideas into reality. Mechatronics engineers can work with electrical and mechanical engineers to solve cross-disciplinary difficulties. Their expertise in information technology, computer hardware and networking, and software allows them to resolve problems in various ways. They could work in industries containing plant equipment such as boilers, compressors, and turbines, or in instrumentation, automation, and control of advanced industrial processes using tools like PLC and microcontroller-based control systems, process simulation for plant modifications, manufacturing, robotics, electronics, aerospace, aviation, defense and R&D applications, biomedical system, engineering management, or a variety of other fields. The graduates also have the opportunity to go on to higher studies in mechatronics or other related areas at prestigious universities throughout the world. The key benefit of Mechatronics engineers is that they are not limited to working in pure Mechatronics but have equal chances in other fields, such as, Electronics, Mechanical, and Computer Engineering. Right now, the department is offering four (4) years Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) in Mechatronics Engineering degree with an intake of 30 students. The first batch of the MTE Department started their journey in the 2018-2019 academic session. Besides the undergraduate program, there are plans to launch the postgraduate program shortly. Mission & Vision Vision of the Department To convey high-quality technical education with a focus on research, innovation, development, and management to cultivate professional engineers who can meet the needs of industry and society through a continuous automation process. Mission of the Department To produce skilled Mechatronics engineers as one of the fundamental parts of Industry 4.0 for building the Digital Bangladesh dreamt by the Government of Bangladesh. To confirm solid basics and technical capabilities in Mechatronics Engineering through excellent teaching-learning methodologies. To ensure the continuous development of students keeping pace with the latest advancement of world technology. To enable the students to utilize an interdisciplinary approach to identify creative and optimal solutions to real-world challenges by combining analytical skills and technical knowledge. To conduct cutting-edge research and develop new technologies in Mechatronics Engineering to address the needs of industry, government, and society. To instill communication skills, leadership, ethics, and entrepreneurship in students to ensure their long-term success. Established : 01-07-2018 Head : Dr. Md. Helal-An-Nahiyan Location : Office , Department of Mechatronics Engineering(MtE), Khulna University of Engineering & Technology

                  (KUET), Khulna-9203, Bangladesh Phone : +880-41-769468-75, Ext-8610 BTCL : Fax : +8802477733351 Email : head@mte.kuet.ac.bd No of Faculty : 14
