PHY | KUET Department of Physics Physics is one of the first departments of Khulna University of Engineering & Technology (KUET) has started functioning as a full-fledged department since 1974 and introduced postgraduate programs: Master of Philosophy (M. Phil.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph. D.) in Physics from the year 2000. Later in 2014 the Master of Science (M.Sc.) program is also introduced. The postgraduate research is being carried out in the fields of Experimental Solid State Physics, Atmospheric Physics and Radiation & Health Physics. The teachers of the Experimental Solid State Physics group have been working on the fabrication and characterization of advanced magnetic materials, such as amorphous magnetic ribbons, soft and hard ferrites, magnetic nano-materials. Atmospheric physics group is working on extreme meteorological events such as Tropical Cyclones, Tornado/ norwester's, heavy precipitation, monsoon meteorology, as well as on climate change. The teacher of Radiation and Health physics group is working on radiation dosimetry, radiation protection and environmental radioactivity. Advanced research programs on all these areas are very essential for technological advancement and sustainable development of the country. Besides this, as a part of the research activity, the department conducted a number of national projects in the past and some of the projects are still going on in the department. The department of Physics has active collaboration with Uppsala University, Sweden; University of Hanoi, Vietnam; Atomic Energy Commission, Bangladesh; Bangladesh University of Engineering & Technology (BUET); BCSIR and Bangladesh Meteorological Department (BMD). First National Conference on Physics for Sustainable Development was held at theDepartment of Physics on 15 February 2014 organized by Department of Physics, KUET with the cooperation of Bangladesh Physical Society (BPS). Second National Conference on Weather Forecasting and Advances in Physics: Bangladesh Perspective was held at the Department of Physics on 20 May 2016 organized by Department of Physics, KUET. The International Conference on Weather Forecasting and Advances in Physics: Bangladesh Perspective was held at the Department of Physics on 11-12 May 2018 organized by Department of Physics, KUET. Established : 01-01-1973 Head : Dr. Md. Alamgir Hossain Location : Office , Department of Physics (PHY), Khulna University of Engineering & Technology

                  (KUET), Khulna-9203, Bangladesh Phone : +8802477733351~70 Ext-500 BTCL : Fax : +8802477733303 Email : head@phy.kuet.ac.bd No of Faculty : 17
