URP | KUET Message From Head Prof. Dr. Md. Manjur Morshed It is my pleasure to introduce the Department of Urban and Regional Planning

                (URP), Khulna University of Engineering & Technology (KUET). Urban planning is crucial for developing

                countries like Bangladesh, as it impacts both regional and national levels. Moreover, during the last

                few years, urban growth rates and the number of municipalities have increased noticeably. Because

                Bangladesh has a limited number of planners, there have been concerted efforts to increase the number of

                Planning graduates from several public universities, i.e., Bangladesh University of Engineering and

                Technology (BUET), Khulna University of Engineering & Technology (KUET), Rajshahi University of

                Engineering & Technology (RUET), Chittagong University of Engineering & Technology (CUET), Jahangirnagar

                University (JU) and Khulna University (KU). Khulna, the third-largest industrial and second-largest port city in

                Bangladesh, is home to KUET. The city has great potential for physical expansion towards the south and

                western part due to the land connectivity with Mongla sea port through Rupsha Bridge and with the

                capital through the Padma Multi-purpose Bridge, depicting it as a potential mega-regional formation and

                as a regional hub of industry, education and services. Therefore, Khulna presents an ideal opportunity

                for learning and exploring the planning issues of cities with growing economies like Bangladesh. The

                course curriculum and research focus of URP, KUET thus have a Khulna’s regional touch. Currently, the URP, KUET offer Bachelor, Masters, and PhD programs. The

                Bachelor program intake is (60) yearly, while the Masters program is offered twice a year

                (January-July). The department selectively offers limited PhD opportunities to exceptionally talented

                candidates. Additionally, the URP, KUET offer consultancy services and have several ongoing research

                projects. In the short term, the department intends to achieve the following: • Update the course curriculum to include coverage of both national and international issues. • Align assessment techniques to the Washington Accord • A large number of MoUs with professional, NGOs, donors and international universities On behalf of the department, I thank you for visiting this page. I welcome you

                to explore different sections of this page for more information and for our activities, achievements and

                expertise. Dr. Md. Manjur Morshed Professor & Head Department of Urban and Regional Planning (URP) Khulna University of Engineering & Technology (KUET) Khulna-9203, Bangladesh.
